---
title: "Maddison Long accepted into Forbes Technology Council"
lastmod: "2019-03-06"
author: "CloudOps"
description: Maddison Long, Vice President of Products at CloudOps, has been accepted into Forbes Technology Council, an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs, and technology executives.
resources:
- name: "thumbnail"
  src: "ForbesTechnologyCouncil2019.png"
class_name: "blog post"
aliases:
    - /2019/03/maddison-long-accepted-into-forbes-technology-council/
    - /maddison-long-accepted-into-forbes-technology-council/
---

<p>Maddison Long, Vice President of Products at CloudOps, a leading Canadian cloud consulting and services company focused on open source, cloud platforms, networking and DevOps, has been accepted into Forbes Technology Council, an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs, and technology executives.</p><p>Maddison Long was vetted and selected by a review committee based on the depth and diversity of his experience. Criteria for acceptance include a track record of successfully impacting business growth metrics, as well as personal and professional achievements and honors.</p><p>“We are honored to welcome Maddison Long into the community,” said Scott Gerber, founder of Forbes Councils, the collective that includes Forbes Technology Council. “Our mission with Forbes Councils is to bring together proven leaders from every industry, creating a curated, social capital-driven network that helps every member grow professionally and make an even greater impact on the business world.”</p><p>As an accepted member of the Council, Maddison has access to a variety of exclusive opportunities designed to help him reach peak professional influence. He will connect and collaborate with other respected local leaders in a private forum. Maddison will also be invited to work with a professional editorial team to share his expert insights in original business articles on Forbes.com, and to contribute to published Q&amp;A panels alongside other experts.</p><p>“I am thrilled to join this esteemed community of leading technology experts,” said Maddison Long, VP of Products at CloudOps. “I look forward to collaborating with the Forbes Councils community and providing insights to Forbes.com readers on the importance of open source software, successful adoption and operation of cloud and networking platforms, and how businesses can thrive in our data driven software economy.”</p><h4>About Forbes Councils</h4><p>Forbes Councils is a collective of invitation-only communities created in partnership with Forbes and the expert community builders who founded Young Entrepreneur Council (YEC). In Forbes Councils, exceptional business owners and leaders come together with the people and resources that can help them thrive.</p><p>For more information about Forbes Technology Council, visit <a href="https://forbestechcouncil.com/">forbestechcouncil.com</a>. To learn more about Forbes Councils, visit<a href="http://forbescouncils.com/"> forbescouncils.com</a>.</p>
