---
title: "CloudOps is a Microsoft DevOps Competency Partner"
lastmod: "2019-04-14"
author: "CloudOps"
resources:
- name: "thumbnail"
  src: "MicrosoftPartnerSilverDevOpsCompetencyLogo.png"
class_name: "blog post"
aliases:
    - /2019/03/cloudops-is-a-microsoft-devops-competency-partner/
    - /cloudops-is-a-microsoft-devops-competency-partner/
---

<div class="post-content"><p>The <a href="https://partner.microsoft.com/en-ca/membership/competencies">Microsoft Competency Program</a> gives partners the opportunity to demonstrate proven expertise in delivering quality solutions to specialized areas of business. Partners reach competency in given areas through a skills assessment, in which they pass exams to demonstrate product knowledge, or through proving an ability to meet performance goals.</p><p>Today, CloudOps announces its completion of the Microsoft DevOps Competency. As a DevOps partner, CloudOps has proven its expertise in helping organizations modernize their application development approaches.</p><p>The transformation of processes, people, and technologies accelerates innovation and allows the faster delivery of creative applications. DevOps helps organizations define, build, manage, and continuously release great software either on-premise or in the cloud. DevOps brings the skills and processes that people use in line with advanced technological solutions and is therefore an integral part of digital transformation.</p><blockquote class="wp-block-quote"><p>“CloudOps has helped customers succeed with DevOps practices for over a decade. Our partnership with Microsoft has grown alongside their support for open source tools and communities, in particular those for Kubernetes and the Cloud Native Computing Foundation. We are excited about the value we can provide our communities and partners through our investments in Microsoft’s DevOps Competency.”</p><p><cite>Marc Pare, Chief Commercial Officer at CloudOps</cite></p></blockquote><p>As one of only two DevOps Competent Partners in Quebec, CloudOps is in the unique position to help organizations enable digital transformation by leveraging application lifecycle management features of the Microsoft development platforms.</p><p>Looking forward, CloudOps is excited to continue its partnership with Microsoft. Additionally, CloudOps is a member of the Microsoft Partner Network and is part of the Microsoft Managed Reseller Incentive.</p><p>Learn more about how we work with <a href="https://www.cloudops.com/microsoft-azure/">Microsoft Azure</a>. As a trusted Silver DevOps partner, CloudOps has specialized expertise in Azure services, including Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), Redis as a Service, database services, and more. Whether you have already migrated to the cloud or seek to optimize your cloud native technology stacks, CloudOps can help propel your organization towards DevOps best practices and cloud native development and delivery.</p><p>Read our ebook <em>Azure Kubernetes Services: Container Security for a Cloud Native World, </em>written with Microsoft, to learn more about the biggest container security risks faced by enterprises and how you can optimize solutions with AKS.</p><p><!--HubSpot Call-to-Action Code --><span class="hs-cta-wrapper" id="hs-cta-wrapper-94f3beaa-3a41-4124-8018-158ec4fdcbcd"><span class="hs-cta-node hs-cta-94f3beaa-3a41-4124-8018-158ec4fdcbcd" id="hs-cta-94f3beaa-3a41-4124-8018-158ec4fdcbcd" style="visibility: visible;" data-hs-drop="true"><a id="cta_button_732832_2780b0b2-3d32-4527-b832-00aced5dae56" class="cta_button " href="https://info.cloudops.com/cs/c/?cta_guid=2780b0b2-3d32-4527-b832-00aced5dae56&amp;placement_guid=94f3beaa-3a41-4124-8018-158ec4fdcbcd&amp;portal_id=732832&amp;canon=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cloudops.com%2F2019%2F03%2Fcloudops-is-a-microsoft-devops-competency-partner%2F&amp;redirect_url=APefjpE2tH85GTk-RdrODL87iVGVvtrXIorcE1SkzZWtuJ8Usv9xzh-hwgjBBNx4cxuhv3-SiP9ENzfuAxS_hc_Sx0DACvVwjl_GPe3JdvLDovVmUSwthOlJQUVCC82vDuwNajclTJdNc8sxxqNfNvIEDiaGtCV23P9-qmDIBhxpRD_EtJU9-k2iGDYKCsMAiIcC0WFDWkaApErZQCmYb5ww13XhRzea_dJDYcmmwwHQxOZYgyBvNQqxi-P_SPmDVGKGPfdnrX3MU8q4-WX1S8yvxNxk0W10icWWp-5oMy-jpb6ydSs2XvLQKO5OQkrXlT5ICNdFic4k&amp;click=a9e26417-549b-4de4-94ff-e2d5f2e6df5e&amp;hsutk=87c014ad1b8ef7afaaf23068a42614b6&amp;signature=AAH58kH4qYWWbRuvhNpXX50EGI4bE6DX3A&amp;__hstc=52875767.87c014ad1b8ef7afaaf23068a42614b6.1588082535461.1589833235915.1589919276211.11&amp;__hssc=52875767.48.1589919276211&amp;__hsfp=792683365&amp;contentType=blog-post" target="_blank" style="" cta_dest_link="https://info.cloudops.com/azure-kubernetes-services-container-security" title="Download eBook">Download eBook</a></span><script charset="utf-8" src="https://js.hscta.net/cta/current.js"></script><script type="text/javascript">hbspt.cta.load(732832, '94f3beaa-3a41-4124-8018-158ec4fdcbcd', {});</script></span><!-- end HubSpot Call-to-Action Code --></p><p></p></div>